# Last-Mile Resilience

Typically, e-retailers observe steady year-on-year growth in demand with a few high-probability low-severity fluctuations through the year, such as around the holiday season. To contend with such market dynamics, e-retailers regularly monitor and manage their distribution operations, which can include the redesign of vehicle delivery routes (short-term operational management), procurement or disposal of resources, e.g., staff and equipment (medium-term tactical management), or even reconfiguration of the distribution structure (long-term strategic management). 
However, the surge in e-commerce demand that ensues after a typical low-probability high-severity disruption gives e-retailers little time to reassess and reconfigure decision-making concerning tactical but especially strategic operational management. Thus, constrained to a pre-disruption level of resources, the e-retailers must cope with the surge in demand while operating at a much lower level of service than usual by outsourcing last-mile operations in a range of ways: either to crowdsourced fleets for delivery, or to customers for pickup at collection-points, or to logistics service providers (LSP) for distribution; as well as by prioritizing the delivery of essential goods at the cost of delayed service for other goods.
Considering the role of e-commerce last-mile distributions in ensuring the supply of essential goods, it is pertinent to assess the resilience of last-mile distribution operations in terms of e-retailers’ ability to maintain and efficiently restore level of service in the event of such low-probability high-severity disruptions. To this end, the authors developed Robustness, Redundancy, Resourcefulness, and Rapidity (R4) - Last Mile Distribution - Resilience Triangle (R4-LMD-RT) framework that can 1) model e-retailer’s last-mile distribution operations using Continuous Approximation (CA) techniques, 2) develop the e-retailer’s operational, tactical, and strategic decision-making to model its behavior pre-, peri-, and post- disruption and 3) evaluate its response to disruptions through. 
This tool is the Julia translation of the R4-LMD-RT framework.

For more details refer to Pahwa, A., and M. Jaller. Assessing last-mile distribution resilience under demand disruptions. Transportation Research Part E: Logistics and Transportation Review, Vol. 172, 2023, p. 103066.
